# FUTURE

What are we thinking? What is our architectural direction? What are our imperatives?

Here's sort of what I'm thinking. We want typst to be native right? Then that means we need to basically build a crate for rendering configuration/settings/theme-controlled HTML from typst compile --format HTML but using as a library so it gets all the proper theme configuration to insert into CSS (which typst doesn't even fuck with so we can do that standard way in rust)

## Vision

So here is the idea: we envision a tripartite agent community where there are three types of agents.

### TOOLS

- `list_sessions` — tool which lists the available connected sessions that an agent can `send` messages or `task_write` updates to, right now we will leave to user to configure but future plan is to have agent be able to spin up programmatically via backend calls which will reconfigure frontend layout. This might or might not require a new JSON-RPC type for calling rust client side ACP client capability/tool.
- `send` — tool which enables a two step async communication between agents where we take advantage of a queue to send a session/prompt to a live ACP client session connected to an agent server, have it do its react loop, then afterward we tell it to call no tools and summarize what it just did in a RESTful output to use it as a pointer to the filesystem-as-state for communication and accumulate those tokens into a message to send back to the calling agent. This will most likely require an extension of the JSON-RPC ACP schema using an underscore like `_send` so we can `session/update` with a method `_send` and build that recognition/tooling into our rust ACP client just like we do with `terminal` and `read_file`/`write_file` tools. And we're going to keep track of the state of the calling agent as `NotCalled`, `WaitingForResponse`, `Responding` so we know what to do under `task_list` conditions for orchestrator agent.
- `task_read` — tool which enables all agents who possess it to view the current session/plan. This will map to existing plan based update types in ACP schema.
- `task_write` — tool for orchestrator that does not require session-id as input for LLM that will use existing session/plan update types because the orchestrator agent can update the task list. We do not give it read only permissions. And I'm not sure if every task list is session specific or not because I KNOW we have to assign the task list with the next tool.
- `task_send` — tool for instructor agent that has the same basic C.R.U.D. (read is in task_read) pattern as `task_write` but does NOT mask the required session-id and we give it a whole new tool name because this tool is like `send` except instead of the very simple pattern of send (yes that is simple in comparison to what comes here), this sends a queue of session/prompts in the form of task_list to the orchestrator agent that has the `task_write` tool. So part of `list_sessions` will have to expose the types of tooling that the agents have.

- **Worker** — standard crow-cli agent without orchestration tools
- **Orchestrator** — custom prompt crow-cli agent with orchestration MCP tools (that actually invoke client side tools inside our backend using custom permissible extensions to ACP JSON-RPC schema) that has four different states and different actions that happen after task_list has been filled:
  - Before task list is filled, it is a normal agent. Normal behavior on end_turn.
  - After task list has been filled with task_write tool which it has access to (which does not require session-id as an input arg), it goes into a loop with four different delegation states:
  - `WaitingForResponse` on end turn — if it delegates the task to a worker agent via the `send` tool, we use the state to keep track of this fact and change how we respond to the agent sending end_turn back to session/update because the way `send` works is asynchronous and we do nothing if it is in state `WaitingForResponse` because it has sent a message off and it expecting things to happen downstream. this is pretty much the one time we do nothing when the orchestrator agent finishes
  - `Responding` and task not complete on end turn — if orchestrator agent has received back a delegated task and has not used `task_write` to update the current task to completed and finishes the turn, we send a message from the rust ACP client backend telling it "move the task to done if it is finished. if it is not finished, bounce back to agent" to the session/prompt of the orchestrator agent session
  - `NotCalled` and task not complete on end turn — if the orchestrator agent never delegates the task at all (`NotCalled` is set when a session/prompt is sent to agent via any channel other than response back from `Responding`, so right after the agent completes the response, it is still in `Responding`, but the minute it gets a new message from user or task queue, it flips to `NotCalled`) and we finish the turn without updating the status of the current task (which is the most recent input to session/prompt of the orchestrator agent, which it knows to send pretty much unmolested straight to the worker before beginning to understand the codebase in faux read only type mode because it can make changes it is just instructed via system prompt to rely on delegation) to done for some reason, we pretty much yell at it for not delegating the task, and tell it to delegate the task to a worker and evaluate the output lmfao, or if it's done to just move the damn thing to done
  - `Responding` and task complete on end turn — we dequeue the next message in the task list and send to session/prompt of orchestrator agent (which of course sets the `send` based state of the agent to `NotCalled` until it does in fact use `send` tool, which responds asynchronously). If the task_list is empty the equivalent of a compaction or basically the same "call no tools respond with a RESTful summary of what you did" fires as a post-task list condensing for the instructor agent, who most likely initiated the task list with `task_send`

So basically the orchestrator communicates with the worker via simple text and the instructor orchestrates the orchestrator through the same task list tool the orchestrator agent uses to create/update/delete the task list as it goes through tasks. So the human talks to the instructor who has the slowest incrementing updates (for now, we will eventually wire in when specific updates to certain folders get changed as a soft-update/prompt to the instructor as the documenting agent that teaches the human if it's not actively in the middle of teaching a human, which will pretty much always be the assumption)
